misc: more on values, while loops and better highlighting (#15)
mun-lang/book: src/ch02-01-values-and-types.md

between interdependent code.

```mun
fn bar(a: i32) -> i32 {
    let foo = 3 + a;
    foo
}
```

Here, the parameter `a` and the return type must be annotated because it
solidifies the signature of the function. The type of `foo` can be inferred
through its usage.

> NOTE: Although the above works, as of version 0.2, Mun is not yet very good at
>type inferencing. This will be improved in the future.

### Integer types

An integer is a number without a decimal part. Mun supports *signed* and
*unsigned* integers. Signed integers also store a sign which means they can
either be positive or negative. Unsigned integer types can only represent
positive numbers. All integer types also have an explicit size. Signed integers
can store any number from -(2<sup>n - 1</sup>) to 2<sup>n -
1</sup> - 1 inclusive, where *n* is the number of bits that the type uses. An
`i8` can store numbers from -(2<sup>7</sup>) to 2<sup>7</sup> - 1 or -128, 127.
Unsigned integers can store numbers from 0 to 2<sup>n</sup> - 1, so an `u8` can store
numbers from 0 to 2<sup>8</sup> -1, or 0 to 255. Table 2-1 shows the built-in integer

> types that Mun supports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An integer is a number without a fractional component. Table 3-1 shows the
built-in integer types in Mun. Each variant can be either signed or unsigned
and has an explicit size. *Signed* and *unsigned* refer to  whether it is
necessary to have a sign that indicates the possibility for the  number to be
negative or positive.
```

> <span class="caption">Table 2-1: Integer Types in Mun</span>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| Length   | Signed  | Unsigned |
|----------|---------|----------|
| 8-bit    | `i8`    | `u8`     |
| 16-bit   | `i16`   | `u16`    |
| 32-bit   | `i32`   | `u32`    |
| 64-bit   | `i64`   | `u64`    |
| 128-bit  | `i128`  | `u128`   |
| arch     | `isize` | `usize`  |

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<span class="caption">Table 2-1: Integer Types in Mun</span>

```

The size of the `isize` and `usize` types are defined by the architecture of the
computer on which the program runs. On 64-bit architectures the `isize` and

> `usize` types are 64 bits whereas on 32-bit architectures they are 32 bits in size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Signed integer types start with `i`, unsigned integer types with `u`, followed 
by the number of bits that the integer value takes up. Each signed variant can 
store numbers from -(2<sup>n - 1</sup>) to 2<sup>n - 1</sup> - 1 inclusive, 
where *n* is the number of bits that variant uses. Unsigned variants can store 
numbers from 0 to 2<sup>n - 1</sup>. By default Mun uses 32-bit signed
integers.

The size of the `isize` and `usize` types depend on the target architecture. On
64-bit architectures,`isize` and `usize` types are 64 bits large, whereas on 32-bit
architectures they are 32 bits in size.
```

### Floating-Point Types

Mun also supports numbers with a decimal representation called *floating-point
numbers*. These are represented by the `f32` and `f64` types. Similar to the

> integer types the `f32` is 32 bits in size and a `f64` is 64 bits in size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Real (or *floating-point*) numbers (i.e. numbers with a fractional component)
are represented according to the IEEE-754 standard. The `f32` type is a
single-precision float of 32 bits, and the `f64` type has double precision -
requiring 64 bits.
```

```mun
fn main() {
    let f = 3.0; // f64
}
```

Mun represents floating points numbers according to the IEEE-754 standard. The
`f32` type represents a single-precision float, and the type `f64` a double

> precision float.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### The Boolean Type

Like in many other programming languages, a Boolean type can either be `true` or

> `false`. Booleans are represented by the `bool` type. They are one byte in size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `bool` (or *boolean*) type has two values, `true` and `false`, that are
used to  evaluate conditions. It takes up one 1 byte (or 8 bits).
```

```mun
fn main() {
    let t = true;

    let f: bool = false; // with explicit type annotation
}
```

### Literals

There are three types of literals in Mun: integer, floating-point and boolean
literals. 

A boolean literal is either `true` or `false`.

An integer literal is a number without a decimal separator (`.`). It can be
written as a decimal, hexadecimal, octal or binary value. These are all
examples of valid literals:

```mun
let a = 367;
let b = 0xbeaf;
let c = 0o76532;
let d = 0b0101011;
```

A floating-point literal comes in two forms:

* A decimal number followed by a dot which is optionally followed by another
  decimal literal and an *optional* exponent.
* A decimal number followed by an exponent.

> Examples of valid floating point literals are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Examples of valid floating-point literals are:
```

```mun
let a: f64 = 3.1415;
let b: f64 = 3.;
let c: f64 = 314.1592654e-2;
```

#### Separators

Both integer and floating-point literals can contain underscores (`_`) to
visually separate numbers from one another. They do not have any semantic
significance but can be useful to the eye.

```mun
let a: i64 = 1_000_000;
let b: f64 = 1_000.12;
```

#### Type suffix

Integer and floating-point literals may be followed by a type suffix to
explicitly specify the type of the literal.

<span class="caption">Table 2-2: Literal suffixes in Mun</span>

| Literal type | Suffixes |
|--------------|----------|
|Integer |`u8`, `i8`, `u16`, `i16`, `u32`, `i32`, `u64`, `i64`, `i128`, `u128`, `usize`, `isize`, `f32`, `f64` |
| Floating-point | `f32`, `f64` |

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Literal type | Suffixes |
|--------------|----------|
|Integer |`u8`, `i8`, `u16`, `i16`, `u32`, `i32`, `u64`, `i64`, `i128`, `u128`, `usize`, `isize`, `f32`, `f64` |
| Floating-point | `f32`, `f64` |

<span class="caption">Table 2-2: Literal suffixes in Mun</span>

```

Note that integer literals can have floating-point suffixes. This is not the
case the other way around.

```mun
let a: u8 = 128_u8;
let b: i128 = 99999999999999999_i128;
let c: f32 = 10_f32; // integer literal with float suffix 
```

When providing a literal, the compiler will always check if a literal value will

> fit the type. If the literal won't fit in the type an error will be emitted:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fit the type. If not, an error will be emitted:
```

```mun
let a: u8 = 1123123124124_u8; // literal out of range for `u8`
```

### Numeric operations 

Mun supports the basic mathematical operations you'd expect for all number

> types: addition, subtraction, division, multiplication, and remainder. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mun supports all basic mathematical operations for number types: addition,
subtraction, division, multiplication, and remainder.
```

```mun
fn main() {
    // addition 
    let a = 10 + 5;

    // subtraction
    let b = 10 - 4;

    // multiplication
    let c = 5 * 10;

    // division
    let d = 25 / 5;

    // remainder
    let e = 21 % 5;
}
```

Each expression in these statements uses a mathematical operator and evaluates
to a single value. This is valid as long as both sides of the operator are of

> the same type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to a single value. This is valid as long as both sides of the operator have the
same type.
```

Unary operators are also supported:

```mun
fn main() {
    let a = 4;

>     let b = -a;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // negate
    let b = -a;
    
    let c = true;
    // not
    let d = !c;
```

}
```

Here, the parameter `a` and the return type must be annotated because it
solidifies the signature of the function. The type of `foo` can be inferred
through its usage.

> NOTE: Although the above works, as of version 0.2, Mun is not yet very good at
>type inferencing. This will be improved in the future.

### Scalar types

A scalar type represents a single value. Mun has three primary scalar types:

> integers, floating-point numbers, Booleans.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
integers, floating-point numbers, and booleans.
```

the signature of the function. The type of `foo` can be inferred through its
usage.

> NOTE: Although the above works, as of version 0.2, Mun is not yet very good at
>type inferencing. This will be improved in the future.

### Basic types

Mun understands the following built-in basic value types:

> | Type                      | Types

Reviewer: I am not sure what is clearer. I have some old markdown that listed bitness and signage in a table (see the Value & Types chapter [here](https://github.com/Wodann/book/blob/chapter/values-and-types/src/specification.md)).

|---------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| Signed integer types      | `i8`, `i16`, `i32`, `i64`, `i128`, `isize`, `int` |
| Unsigned integer types    | `u8`, `u16`, `u32`, `u64`, `u128`, `usize`, `uint`|
| IEEE floating point types | `f32`, `f64`, `float`                             |
| Boolean type              | `bool` |

Most types are defined by their bitness, so `i8` is an unsigned integer, 8 bits
in size. There are some exceptions:

* `usize` and `isize` are the size as of the pointer architecture, so 64 bits on

>   64 bit platforms and 32 bits on 32 bit plaforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  64-bit platforms and 32 bits on 32-bit platforms.
```

* `int`, `uint` and `float` are convenience values that are always 64 bits in
  size. These types are *not* aliases for their sized counterparts so `i64 !=

>   int` and therefor implicit casting is not possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  int` and therefore implicit casting is not possible.
```

  

### Literals

> There are three types of literals in Mun: integer-, floating-point and boolean

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three types of literals in Mun: integer, floating-point and boolean
```

literals. 

A boolean literal is either `true` or `false`.

> An integer literal is a number value without a decimal separator (`.`). It can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An integer literal is a number without a decimal separator (`.`). It can be
```

> written as an decimal, hexadecimal, octal or binary value. These are all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
written as a decimal, hexadecimal, octal or binary value. These are all
```

examples of valid literals:

```mun
let a: int = 367;
let b: int = 0xbeaf;
let c: int = 0o76532;
let d: int = 0b0101011;
```

A floating point literal comes in two forms:

> * A decimal number followed by a decimal which is optionally followed by another

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A decimal number followed by a dot; which is optionally followed by another
```

  decimal literal and an *optional* exponent.
* A decimal number followed by an exponent.

Examples of valid floating point literals are:

```mun
let a: float = 3.1415;
let b: float = 3.;
let c: float = 314.1592654e-2;
```

#### Separators

Both integer and floating-point literals can contain underscores (`_`) to
visually separate numbers from one another. They do not have any semantic
significance but can be useful to the eye.

```mun
let a: int = 1_000_000;
let b: float = 1_000.12;
```

#### Type suffix

Integer and floating-point literals may be followed by a type suffix to
explicitly specify the type of the literal.

For an integer literal valid suffixes are:

| Literal type | Suffixes |
|--------------|----------|
|Integer |`u8`, `i8`, `u16`, `i16`, `u32`, `i32`, `u64`, `i64`, `i128`, `u128`, `int`, `uint`, `usize`, `isize`, `f32`, `f64`, `float` |
| Floating-point | `f32`, `f64`, `float` |

Note that integer literals can have floating point suffixes. This is not the
case the other way around.

> > Note: number literal types in Mun v0.2 are always either `int` or `float`

Reviewer: Not relevant to this PR in general, but in regards to a prior discussion that we've had. We decided to keep `int`, `uint` and `float` in the core language spec for now, as we would otherwise not be able to infer the type of a literal without a type suffix. 

Rust actually does this by [always defaulting](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/41996784/what-is-the-integer-or-float-in-a-compiler-error-message) to `i32` for integer types and `f64` for float types. We could do something similar without needing `int`, `uint` and `float`.

Author: Yes, I agree. We should remove them at some point.

### Shadowing

Redeclaring a variable by the same name with a `let` statement is valid and will
shadow any previous declaration in the same block. This is often useful if you
want to change the type of a variable.

```mun
let a: int = 3;
let a: float = 5.0; 
```

### Use before initialization

> All variables in Mun must be initialized before use. Uninitialized variables can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All variables in Mun must be initialized before usage. Uninitialized variables can
```

be declared but they must be assigned a value before they can be read.

```mun
let a: int;
if some_conditional {
    a = 4;
}
let b = a; // invalid: a is potentially uninitialized
```

> Note that declaring a variable without a value is often a code smell since the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that declaring a variable without a value is often a bad code smell since the
```

above could have better been written by *returning* a value from the `if`/`else`

> block instead of assigning to `a`. This wont require the use of an uninitialized
> value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
block instead of assigning to `a`. This avoids the use of an uninitialized value.
```
